CV Writeup
HR Data analytics – HR Domain [Power BI | Excel]
• Designed a Power BI dashboard to track employee data for the HR team, including working hours, attendance, performance, and leaves. 
 The dashboard streamlined HR processes and increased efficiency.
• This Dashboard can save 3-4hrs of work for the HR daily.

Data : https://codebasics.io/resources/resume-project-data-analytics (CodeBasics)

The project was mainly a Resume Project Challenge by CodeBasics, and the dataset was provided by CodeBasics as an Excel file containing multiple sheets.
The dataset was based on the Human Resource Management of Atliq Harware for the 3 months. The HR was finding it difficult to see the data in an excel 
format as it was in an complex format. So the HR wanted to visualize the data insights in a more granular way. Moreover, the director of the company 
wanted to know which was the best time for project releases , work space capacity management,team meetings,building management based on the employees 
availability. There are many more metrics which I am going to find while building this report.

The excel file had a sheet which contained the reference of the attendence abriviations like "P" for present, "WFH" for work from home,
"HWFH" for Half Work From Home ,etc. which also needed to be considered while building the Report.

Now as I was given one excel file with multiple sheets having different column headers, so to merge all the sheets together in the Power BI , I had to 
create a template query which is the copy of the main file. Then after removing the unnecessary columns from the template and deleting any M code step 
refering to the column header , I created a function to automate the process for all the sheets and also for any other sheets that could be added in future. 

Then I move on to creating DAX which is the formula brain of Power BI . Creating DAX helps us to visualize data in more granular way. I have divided 
this into 2 parts , firstly to create Calculated Columns and then creating some Measures. Calculated Columns helps to stamp fixed static values in our tables
where as Measures create calculated values which only appears in the visualisation and are not stored in the table. Like in this case I have extracted the month 
fron thr date column ,and to find the count of work from home and Sick leaves added two different calculated coulumns. I even created simpliest of Measures which 
were available to as Implisit Measures so that I can use that in creating complex Measures. I also created some Measures to find our different parameters of our sales. 
Like office working days , present days , Work from home % ,etc. 

Attendence Overview:
Now moving to the Dashboard creation , HR was more interested in seeing the Attendence % , Sick Leave % and Work From Home % . So I have placed those in the left top 
position of the dashboard as its is the most visible area in the whole sheet. Then the HR wanted to see the Attendence % break down for each employee ID so I have
added two tables containing the attendence break down for each employee. Then I have added 2 slicers , one containing the Month and another containg the date filed
which will help the HR to visualize the data between a span of certain dates. I have also added 3 area charts containg the 3 important metrics mentioned above with 
respect to date and added a trend line to understand the employee behaviour with months. I have added the same metrics beside their respective area charts in a tabular
format with respect to day of week. I also added a slicer which act as a search bar for employee code , which will help the HR to find a specific employee's details.

KEY Findings: 
After discussing with the HR , I have found that most employees like to take Work from home mostly on Thursdays or Friday. And Sick leaves on Mondays and Tuseday.
I have also found that the attendence % starts to decline from the month of June as its is the beginning of the festive seasons. Atliq also wants to shift to 
Hybrid model of work for better space management and save cost. The HR also shared Insights regarding team meetings or team lunch and other group activities 
which they are planing to do in middle of the week because of more attendence. By this way this dashboard can save upto 3 - 4 hour of work for HR Daily.

Dashboard : https://app.powerbi.com/view?r=eyJrIjoiNmE5MWNjMTItODE4NC00ZWEyLTk5NWQtNmM1OWQ3NTgwZTg4IiwidCI6ImRmODY3OWNkLWE4MGUtNDVkOC05OWFjLWM4M2VkN2ZmOTVhMCJ9
 
